Code-Quality-and-Style.md, before:

This document outlines standards of code quality and code style which we would like to uphold in the Metafacture project.

# Build Environment

We currently use Maven 3.0.4. For a full build call the `package` goal. See `/pom.xml` for the build configuration. All build related issues are to be handled by Maven and Maven only (No extra ant etc.). 
The folder structure of the project follows the Maven standards. The extra folder `/quality_assurance`  contains rule sets for static code analysis.

# Logging

We use the SLF4J framework and do not include a concrete logger.. This means that in the code `org.slf4j.Logger` is used

```java
private final static Logger LOG = LoggerFactory.getLogger(MyClass.class);
```

# Exception Handling

The idea is to bail out as soon a possible when an error occurs. Consequently rethrow checked but fatal exception as runtime exceptions. Do not forget to add the original exception as cause. Otherwise the stacktrace is lost. In particular do not catch exceptions just to print a stacktrace! Let the virtual machine handle the stacktrace. Example: 

```java
try{
	// Code which may throw a checked exception
} catch (Exception originalException) {
	throw new DomainSpecificException("Explanation", originalException);
}
```

`DomainSpecificException` inherits from `RuntimeException`. 
Throw `IllegalStateException`, `IllegalArgumentException` etc. to indicate `null` pointers before they corrupt the system state. In performance critical parts use `assert` statements. They can be activated on demand with the VM switch `-ea`. 

#Testing

## Test Framework

JUnit is used. Tests reside in the src/test/java directory. Use the @Test annotation to mark test methods. Additionally, the method name should start with "test" (Maven issue). 

```java
public class ExampleTest {
	@Test
	public void testSomething(){
	[...]
```
To switch off tests use the `@Ignore` annotation. 

## Test Coverage

A test coverage report can be generated by calling the Maven goal `cobertura:cobertura`. Report location: `target/site/cobertura/index.html` 

There is also an eclipse plugin for Cobertura: [eCobertura](http://ecobertura.johoop.de/), download at http://ecobertura.johoop.de/update/ 

# Code style

* Always use `final` for method parameters and exceptions. Fields and local variables should be declared `final` if possible. Aim for an assign-once style.
* Do not prefix fields and method invocations with `this`. The only exception are assignments in constructors and setters.

# Code Quality

## Naming Convention

Please follow the official [Java Code Conventions](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/codeconventions-150003.pdf).

## Code Documentation

Please document your code with JavaDocs. Especially leave a notice if code is experimental or not used. Also mention collaborating classes by adding `@see` and `@link` tags. 

##Raw Types

Do not use raw types. If unsure how to correctly generify or restore type safety, leave the raw type warning unsuppressed and place a `TODO` marker. 

## Compiler Warnings

Please avoid to commit code with compiler warnings. If warnings are unavoidable, suppress them with an annotation and add a short comment, why it is save to suppress it. If unsure about consequences add a `TODO` marker.

## Static Code Analysis

Please do not commit code with FindBugs exceptions. The FindBugs plugin can be found at http://findbugs.cs.umd.edu/eclipse 

Further plugins for code analysis: 

* [Checkstyle](http://eclipse-cs.sf.net/update/")
* [PMD](http://pmd.sourceforge.net/eclipse)

The rulesets used are located in folder `/quality_assurance`.

Commit message:

Update from maven to gradle

Code-Quality-and-Style.md, after:

This document outlines standards of code quality and code style which we would like to uphold in the Metafacture project.

# Build Environment

We currently use Gradle 4.0.2, invoked by the [Gradle wrapper](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html). For a full build execute in root directory
```bash
$ ./gradlew.sh install
```
respectively the `gradlew.bat` if you are on windows. See `build.gradle` for the build configuration. All build related issues are to be handled by gradle. 
The folder structure of the project follows the Maven standards, except that there are directories (called `modules`) allowing a multi-module project structure.

# Logging

We use the SLF4J framework and do not include a concrete logger.. This means that in the code `org.slf4j.Logger` is used

```java
private final static Logger LOG = LoggerFactory.getLogger(MyClass.class);
```

# Exception Handling

The idea is to bail out as soon a possible when an error occurs. Consequently rethrow checked but fatal exception as runtime exceptions. Do not forget to add the original exception as cause. Otherwise the stacktrace is lost. In particular do not catch exceptions just to print a stacktrace! Let the virtual machine handle the stacktrace. Example: 

```java
try{
	// Code which may throw a checked exception
} catch (Exception originalException) {
	throw new DomainSpecificException("Explanation", originalException);
}
```

`DomainSpecificException` inherits from `RuntimeException`. 
Throw `IllegalStateException`, `IllegalArgumentException` etc. to indicate `null` pointers before they corrupt the system state. In performance critical parts use `assert` statements. They can be activated on demand with the VM switch `-ea`. 

#Testing

## Test Framework

JUnit is used. Tests reside in the src/test/java directory. Use the @Test annotation to mark test methods. Additionally, the method name should start with "test" (Maven issue). 

```java
public class ExampleTest {
	@Test
	public void testSomething(){
	[...]
```
To switch off tests use the `@Ignore` annotation. 

## Test Coverage

A test coverage report can be generated by calling the Maven goal `cobertura:cobertura`. Report location: `target/site/cobertura/index.html` 

There is also an eclipse plugin for Cobertura: [eCobertura](http://ecobertura.johoop.de/), download at http://ecobertura.johoop.de/update/ 

# Code style

* Always use `final` for method parameters and exceptions. Fields and local variables should be declared `final` if possible. Aim for an assign-once style.
* Do not prefix fields and method invocations with `this`. The only exception are assignments in constructors and setters.

# Code Quality

## Naming Convention

Please follow the official [Java Code Conventions](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/codeconventions-150003.pdf).

## Code Documentation

Please document your code with JavaDocs. Especially leave a notice if code is experimental or not used. Also mention collaborating classes by adding `@see` and `@link` tags. 

##Raw Types

Do not use raw types. If unsure how to correctly generify or restore type safety, leave the raw type warning unsuppressed and place a `TODO` marker. 

## Compiler Warnings

Please avoid to commit code with compiler warnings. If warnings are unavoidable, suppress them with an annotation and add a short comment, why it is save to suppress it. If unsure about consequences add a `TODO` marker.

## Static Code Analysis

Please do not commit code with FindBugs exceptions. The FindBugs plugin can be found at http://findbugs.cs.umd.edu/eclipse 

Further plugins for code analysis: 

* [Checkstyle](http://eclipse-cs.sf.net/update/")
* [PMD](http://pmd.sourceforge.net/eclipse)

The rulesets used are located in folder `/quality_assurance`.
